We have a problem Heuston (case)
Tom runs a product concept and design company that handles high-level web and marketing
activities while outsourcing development. Although his business is located in the digital
campus beside Heuston Station he claims there are just too few (affordable) software
engineers in the Irish market for a small firm like his to build up its own development
capability, especially as much of the work can be sourced online. He contracts software
implementation and delivery to a small number of trusted outside firms that he has worked
with over the years. Tom handles client, the requirements, and sources delivery from these
contacts. Tom thinks of the software code that he sources as something that just 'gets the job
done';
"yes code is intellectual property but you can't be precious about code. For me it's the
relationship with my client, building up a joint understanding of how we want a 'thing' to work.
To be honest I couldn't care less about the code as something I own".
The CMS project was a nice earner in 2005 but now five years later, it is becoming a bit of a
headache. The original developer had moved to America but passed the source code to Tom
who in turn contracted a firm in India to maintain and develop it. The Indian firm was founded
by Suhas and a number of partners who were IT professionals and had worked together
previously in Europe. Suhas had taken on the CMS contract almost as a favor to Tom and the
original developer, a personal friend. As it happened neither Suhas nor the developers on his
team had ever met Tom in person or dealt directly with Tom's clients (CMS's customers and
users). Tom managed all contact with India, usually through Suhas but occasionally
contacting the developers assigned to the CMS project by email, Skype or phone.
Pune, called the Oxford of the East by India's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, is home
to many high tech, consultancy and software companies centred around a vibrant community
of universities, research institutes and colleges. Pune competes for international software
outsourcing business with other locations in India and across the World. However Suhas's
view has always been that Indian engineers should innovate and add value, rather than just
take part in an international outsourcing race to the bottom in terms of cost or manpower. He
founded the firm on principles of integrity and fairness...
"knowledge has power, but it takes time to acquire and it is only useful if it is shared and
used!"
"I always feel that we can not be threat to our clients because the end customer always
prefers to have a local company to deal with which can outsource the work to outside world."
The CMS project has a history, characterised by periods of intense involvement (development
and delivery work) followed by gaps of months at a time with little or no contact. The
engineers who had worked on it over the years were often overwhelmed, picking up where
the project had left off and working on fixes or new features with few opportunities for
feedback with the end customer. A release could be delivered after which it might take Tom a
week or more to report back on the quality or its acceptance. This sort of stop-start, delayed
back and forwards was not typical for Suhas's other contracts. Suhas felt that the CMS was a
perfectly good application that already satisfied the requirements, however Tom's point of
view was that the customer was always right, if the customer was unhappy then it was a bug
and it had to be fixed. For Tom just understanding a customer's problem took time and effort,
explaining it to Suhas or one of his engineers complicated things further. In spite of this Tom
was concerned to keep the customer at 'arms length' from India, after all, if they dealt directly
with each other what was the point of having Tom in the relationship? Suhas felt there could
never be an issue of 'going behind' Tom, he reasoned that Tom owned the CMS, it was Tom's
property. What Suhas wanted was for his engineers to communicate directly with the end-
user so they could clarify the requirements, satisfy them completely, identify and fix bugs, get
on with the job and get paid.
CMS: Content Management System(s)
Content management systems are applications for managing and structuring information and
data accessed and delivered over the Internet. The term CMS is often synonymous with
'portal' or web site however several crucial features distinguish a CMS from other internet
services including: publication workflow, fine grained user roles and privileges, extensive
data/object types (event, wiki, news, chat, blog, slideshow, video, audio, forms, mail, surveys,
RSS), TTW (Through The Web) administration and use, extendible via Javascript and other
programming methods.
A general overview of different CMSs is available at
the cmsmatrix.org. cmsmatrix.org enables feature comparisons between the many CMS
product/applications available
